Germany sees rise in crime committed by asylum seekers

Germany has seen a big increase in crimes committed by asylum seekers, a development that is likely to be seized on by the populist Alternative for Germany as it campaigns against Angela Merkel’s liberal refugee policy in this year’s Bundestag elections.

Figures released by the interior ministry showed that some 174,000 immigrants from non-EU countries were suspected of carrying out crimes last year, a 52 per cent increase on 2015.

Germany has admitted more than 1m refugees since 2015, many of them fleeing civil war in Syria. Officials stress that the vast majority are peaceful and law-abiding.

But they have also identified a hard core of repeat offenders who contributed to a small increase in violent crime in 2016.

Concern has grown about the implications of the refugee influx for domestic security, especially after a Tunisian asylum seeker with ties to the militant group Isis killed 12 people by driving a truck into a crowded Christmas market in Berlin last year.

A wave of sexual attacks in Cologne on New Year’s Eve in 2015, believed to be carried out by men of North African origin, also fuelled fears that the surge in immigration could trigger higher rates of sexual crime.

Whoever commits a serious crime here forfeits their residency rights

The crime statistics, released on Monday, showed that immigrants were responsible for 35 per cent of cases of pickpocketing, 11 per cent of home break-ins, and nearly 15 per cent of cases of grievous bodily harm.

“Crimes committed by [asylum-seeking] immigrants saw a disproportionate increase last year — there’s nothing there we can gloss over,” said German Interior Minister Thomas de Maizière. He said when it came to violent crimes there were “about 90 per cent more immigrant suspects in 2016” than in the prior year.

Mr de Maizière cited the cramped conditions of refugee hostels as a contributory factor, as well as “potentially explosive” ethnic and religious tensions between different immigrant groups.

He also noted that many of the refugees were young men aged between 18 and 21 — a group where the crime rate, even among Germans, is four times higher than that of the average population.

Decision deals blow to rightwing populist party racked by internal divisions

The minister reiterated Germany’s tough new approach to asylum-seekers who commit crimes. Last year the government moved to increase judges’ powers to deport foreign citizens convicted of serious crimes such as sex assaults.

“Whoever commits a serious crime here forfeits their residency rights,” he said.

Of the 2m criminal suspects recorded in Germany in 2016, 616,000 were non-Germans, or about 30 per cent of the total.

Overall, there was a slight dip in the number of crimes recorded in Germany last year, despite the increase in population resulting from the refugee surge.

But there was a 6.7 per cent increase in crimes of violence, a development Mr de Maizière described as a “wake-up call for us all”. Cases of murder and manslaughter increased 14 per cent, of rape and sexual assault by 13 per cent and grievous bodily harm by 10 per cent. However there were fewer crimes such as break-ins, shoplifting and fraud.